---
layout: post
title: CHAPTER 1 Welcome to Grokking Simplicity
date:   2023-03-04 00:17:47 +0900
categories: en posts
permalink: /chapter-01/
---


Functional programming is a programming paradigm that minimizes *side effects* using *mathematical
functions*.

- mathematical function: also called *pure function*, which always returns the same results only if
  the same input values are given.
- side-effect: changes in global states. Side effects can incur unexpected outcomes in your code. It
  is therefore very important to manage all ‘actions’ that are in your code. To minimize these
  risks, the functional programming paradigm commands you to get rid of as many side effects as you
  can.

In functional programming, codes can be one of these three categories.

1. Action: A code that returns different values depending on when or how many times it has been
   executed.
2. Calculation: A code that returns the same result, given the same input.
3. Data: A code that is always the same value even without execution.

Use *calculation* rather than *action*, and *data* rather than *calculation*. It fits the
distributed system because it prevents several problems through independent *calculations* and *
data*. Converting action codes into calculation codes would also make it easier to manipulate the
code base.

You should learn about *first-class abstractions* as well while practicing sorting codes in the
three categories above. First-class abstraction means, in short, to pass a function to another
function as a parameter, to return it as a value of a function, to assign it to a variable, or to
involve it in a data structure.

In the following posts, we’ll talk about the things that are required to think in functional ways.
Luckily, the stories about how functional programming can be used in the real world are just around
the corner! They would help you to take advantage of functional programming on your working code
bases.

Stay tuned!